1) I don't trust Tesla accounting. Tsla numbers any given quarter are whatever Musk needs them to be

2) Let's further clean those numbers from the CO2 regulatory credits and bitcoin & dogecoin pump/dump schemes

3) Finally it's not that complicated: Tesla is a car manufacturer, we've been doing this for 150 years, Tesla ceiling as a company is the entity which represents today's the state of the art in such craft: Toyota or VW depending on your philosophy.
Let's allow for that +20% due to the marvel of "vertical integration". It's not that marvelous of a revolution.

4) They painted themselves in the corner by embracing the 150 year old manufacturing craft and leaving other companies the ability to specialize themselves in the real future cash cows of the automotive industry, the real revolution: Self-driving (Zoox, Waymo, Stellantis LLC) and IP for the next gen batteries (Bosch, Siemens etc.) . Tesla fans always forget that we live in an economy of ideas, what you want to do is design the next big thing, retain the IP and then sell your design, you don't want to actually manufacture stuff. That's gross and distracts you from the design part. MSFT, GOOG, AAPL, FB, NFLX etc. that's the model. IP and software all the way.


Tesla stock is succeeding because of a simple social trend in the endless cycles of businesses. In the very beginning of the long history of business it was owners themselves who'd  advertise products to clients, then such practice quickly became synonimous with scams, trying too hard and aggressive selling . At the same time owners would feel worthless and their morale would suffer a lot when they'd get rejected by clients.

So there was a shift, owners would pay other people to advertise their company and products: salesmen, publicists, Hollywood actors, musicians etc. Nobody advertised their company first hand anymore, owners would avoid feeling worthless when rejected and clients were actually more likely to buy when there was some sort of third party trying to onboard them and not the guy who'd directly profit from their onboarding

Musk understood that if nobody is doing it there is room for people to start doing it back again, and as long as there are very few people doing it then it's not suspicious or seen as "trying too hard".

That's the reason why Tesla marketcap is that high, it's not about the tech or the quarters or the numbers...it's about Musk understanding that a practice which was once common could be used once again for his advantage. Oh and him not being afraid to sell his company directly to normies.